There are a number of ways you can get involved
===============================================

with the Earth microbiome Project:
==================================

Due to the immense interest in the EMP, many people, companies and
funding agencies are asking how they can contribute. There are a number
of different pathways to get involved right now. 1. If you have funding
for sequencing your samples already but would like to take advantage of
EMP protocols and the sample database, please contact the steering
committee at <emp-steering@earthmicrobiome.org>. We will be happy to
discuss with you details of the protocols, how to register your samples
in [Global Environmental Sample
Database](http://www.earthmicrobiome.org/getting-involved/global-environmental-sample-database/)
(GESD) (including assistance with sample registration), and whether data
analysis will take place on a collaboration basis or whether you would
just like to release the data through the EMP but perform the analysis
yourself. Many different interaction models are successful. This pathway
benefits you by allowing you to integrate your samples directly with
tens of thousands of other samples and potentially by providing
analytical assistance, and benefits the EMP by expanding the dataset
available for analysis with samples that we could otherwise not afford
to process. 2. The EMP will fund certain projects that contribute
meaningfully to our mission. If you have an interesting set of samples,
please email <submissions@earthmicrobiome.org> and provide the following
two documents: (i) A single page description of your project with
hypotheses that can be tested with 16S amplicon data generated by the
EMP. It is important your hypotheses are clearly stated and can be
tested using the amplicon data generated. If you wish to explore the
potential to have 18S or ITS rRNA amplicon sequencing done please add
this request and appropriate hypotheses. Importantly, please include the
number of samples being submitted, and if you are submitting DNA please
state that you have extracted the DNA using the EMP standard protocols
as listed on this website. (ii) A spreadsheet containing the contextual
data for every sample, including but not limited to the latitude and
longitude of where the samples were collected or generated from, the
date and time, host information if relevant, physical, edaphic, chemical
parameters that describe the ecosystem (including temperature, pH,
nutrient concentrations, etc.), and any other parameters that can help
to determine the niche for the microbial communities in/on your samples.
It is important that we have the actual data, samples will not be
considered until they have been collected and metadata has been
generated. These two documents will help the EMP assess the impact of
your study, and you will be contacted rapidly regarding this decision.
3. If you have a new computational tool and would like to be listed
among the contributors of analytical techniques for the EMP, email the
steering committee at <emp-steering@earthmicrobiome.org> to be listed on
the "[Computational Tool
Contributors](http://www.earthmicrobiome.org/affiliations/emp-informatics-working-group/)"
page. 4. If you have suggestions about the laboratory and/or
computational methods, please join the discussion on the Protocols Wiki
(under construction). If you would like to be listed as a contributor,
please email the steering committee at
<emp-steering@earthmicrobiome.org> to be listed on the "Methods
Contributors" page (under construction). 5. If you would like to analyze
the EMP data, we have great news for you: all the data and metadata can
be downloaded and analyzed freely, no strings attached. If you would
like to be listed as contributing biological/ecological insight to the
project overall or to specific habitats or organisms with which you are
familiar, email the steering committee at
<emp-steering@earthmicrobiome.org> to be listed on the "Biological and
Ecological Interpreters" page (under construction). 6. If you are from a
company, we are willing to provide samples that you can use to
demonstrate that your protocols are "EMP-equivalent" or better, and
sponsorship for travel and workshops, laboratory and sequencing reagents
(either in-kind or financial assistance), etc. is always appreciated.
For example, MoBio, Pacific Biosciences, Illumina and Eppendorf have
provided extremely helpful in-kind sponsorship at this point, and Luca
Technologies and Eppendorf have provided travel sponsorship. The EMP is
currently a sink rather than a source of funding, so we are in general
unable to cover costs of validating additional protocols, although this
will likely change when the full-scale project is funded. Email the
steering committee at <emp-steering@earthmicrobiome.org> for information
on levels of sponsorship, benefits at EMP meetings, etc. 7. If you are a
funding agency representative or represent an organization or
foundation, and are interested in discussing funding opportunities with
the Earth Microbiome Project please contact
<emp-steering@earthmicrobiome.org> to start discussions. We will review
contributors periodically to ensure that the pages stay current and
reflect who is actively working on the EMP.
